# kablammo

I would like you to build me a very basic nuclear chain reaction simulator in P5.js. (If you were in class, we would have started this, and you should be well on your way.) </br>
</br>
Create a NEW sketch directory for this project, called "fission". (Like before, it should have a p5 directory on the same "level" as it, as this contains the p5.js code.) You can copy the bouncing ball/text project into this directory and use it as a basis (if you need to re-download it again, feel free to use the previous assignment link), just make sure you give the directory it is in a new name! </br>
</br>
It should incorporate the following basic parts at a bare minimum:

* There should be a global object called "settings" which contains any basic settings that can be manipulated by the user, like the number of atoms to be created, the radius of atoms and neutrons, the number of neutrons to be created in every fission, the canvas width and height, etc.
* A class called **Atom**, which represents atoms of uranium. Atoms have a center position (x,y), velocity vectors (vx,vy) and a radius. Their velocity should be set to zero when they spawn. They should have a draw() method that draws them on the Canvas as a colored circle. They should also have an "alive" property which determines whether they are still entities to take into consideration. They should also have a fission() method that causes their "alive" property to be set to "false" and creates some number of neutrons (set in the settings object) traveling in a random direction and a fixed speed at the atom's position.
* A class called **Neutron**, which represents neutrons. They should have center positions, velocity vectors, and a radius. When spawned, they should set their velocity vector to a random angle and a given speed. (You can use the vector_from_angle_and_speed() function in extra.js to convert a degree angle to a pair of movement vectors.) The should have a draw() method that draws them on the Canvas as a white circle. They should have an "alive" property as well. Neutrons also have a "lifespan" which would be initially set in the global settings, and would decrease every time their draw() function is called, and once it hit 0, their "alive" property should be set to false. During their draw() function, they should also change their position according to their movement vector, and then check whether they are colliding with any atoms (in the extra.js file, there is a function — circlesTouching() — that can check this). If so, their "alive" status should be set to "false" and the atom in question should have its fission() method called.
* The **setup()** function for the sketch should, along with setting up the Canvas initializing global arrays for holding atoms and neutrons, create some number of atoms (based on a number in the settings) and position them at random in a circular disk. (Use the diskPointPicking() function in extra.js for picking the positions — the math of distributing points on a disk evenly is a little trickier than you might expect.) It should then spawn some number of neutrons at the center of the disk. Note that if you add "addSettingsTable(settings);" into the setup() function (it comes from extra.js), it will pop up a little editor that lets you change any properties in the settings object on the fly.
* The **draw()** function should iterate over the arrays of neutrons and atoms and call their draw() methods. You should also then use the cleanupObjects() function in extra.js to remove any atoms and neutrons whose "alive" properties are false.

The above should create a very bare-boned simulator. Your first job is to get it working. Your second job is to start playing with different values in the settings and seeing what happens to the simulation as you do so — what are the conditions for a chain reaction consuming the entire amount of atoms, versus not? </br>
</br>
Your third job is to add some more options and granularity. For example:

* In the above, there will be Atoms that end up touching one another. You could imagine finding a way to make them bounce off of each other (to do this, you would need each atom to check if it is touching another atom, and if so, to add movement vectors that move them away from each other. In extra.js, the function circlesReflect() will alter the vectors. Note that if you do not apply some kind of "friction" to the atoms, they will bounce off forever. Friction here would mean that every draw() cycle, their velocity is decreased a little until it goes back to zero.)
* In a real bomb, there are isotopes that fission (like U-235) and isotopes that will absorb neutrons but not fission (like U-238). You could imagine implementing a "type" property to your Atom class, which would be checked before the fission() method was called, to see if it was fissile or not. You could then imagine having the atoms pick their "type" based on some level of "enrichment" that would be set in the global settings, and make the different types appear different colors.
* Actual neutrons have a chance of just bouncing off of atoms ("scattering"), not being absorbed by them. You could imagine implementing this with the circlesReflect() method. Note that it might take some tweaking of the movement vectors as the neutron is likely to bounce off of the atom more than vice versa.
* You could imagine creating another class called Explosion, which would be a little explosion caused by each fission reaction, which would appear as a circle of light that briefly grows at the point of the fission event, and perhaps had the power to bounce atoms off of it.
* Each atom has a small chance of spontaneously undergoing fission. You could imagine setting that chance in the settings and implementing it in the draw() method of each atom.
* You could imagine implement a Tamper, which would be a ring surrounding the atoms that held them in place and reflected neutrons back into the core. (This would be rather advanced.)
* You could imagine shrinking the Tamper, pushing the atoms closer together, like an implosion bomb. (This would be very advanced.)
* In real life, the faster a neutron goes, the harder a time it has fissioning atoms. Every time one bounces off of an atom it loses a little speed, which increases the chance that they might fission. (This would be very advanced.)

The above are just examples of properties one could add. For this assignment, try to implement at least TWO additional properties/behaviors to the model aside from the "basic bare minimum" requirements. </br>
</br>
When you are done, upload your code for this project (the whole sketch directory) to your OneDrive account. Then put a short "response paper" here that describes what you did, any problems you ran into, any help you got from others, and any insights working on this model gave you that you thought were interesting (about programming or atomic bombs).
